I've [~900 words about LLMs before](https://thatxliner.github.io/blog/posts/my-thoughts-on-gpt-copyright/), albeit quite badly and unclear. But I would to try to bring my thoughts to the open web again. Specifically, I'm going to address my thoughts on LLMs on their effect on the education system. Ok that's a little too broad and formal, which isn't my style. Let me get to the point: I think English teachers, instead of trying to restrict AI, should actually embrace it. Fully embrace it.

## The most obvious concern first

> If we allow them to use AI, how will students learn how to write properly?

In elementary, basic English syntax and grammar will be taught. The fundamentals remain unchanged. Kids that age should not have such open access to the internet anyway. Their parents should know not to let them get an OpenAI account (which requires a phone number) and thus ChatGPT. On that note, if a kid figures out how to download and run a powerful enough LLM locally, then they pretty much deserve it.

In middle school, at least in my experience, teachers teach more in depth about grammar and syntax. The actual writing is quite simple as you just need to follow some N-paragraph essay format where each paragraph is structured as Y. Obviously, AI can easily be used to generate such essays. Where AI cannot be used in is the researching. For example, the student will still need to read books in order to write a book report (bonus points if the teacher requires quotes from the book). Students will need to learn how to communicate clearly to an AI, so that it writes the right things. Despite this, the students will still need to learn how to edit and revise because can, [and will](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Murphy%27s_law), make errors. I believe that requiring students to show their work/writing process (similar to math) is still crucial. The writing process may include how they did research (which AI can help in, but in the end they'll still need to quote and cite credible sources), how they structured the essay, etc.

Assignments where students shouldn't be using AI should be designed so that students fundamentally cannot use AI on it.

Instead of trying to restrict students from using AI models to generate their essays, English teacher should actually teach them how to do so. If the essay prompt is so tedious and easily written that it could be written by an AI, then why bother with writing it? Real, influential literature is impossible to be generated by an AI. AIs can't generate new research papers. AIs cannot capture the artistic beauty that we humans can make. ~~Although it can mimic it, there has to be explicit meaning put into every word which an AI can't do~~ We should be writing new ideas, exploring novel thoughts. AIs can help with summarizing or aggregating research or history, but they can never replace the personal experiences and thoughts of a human life. If English teachers want to develop writing skills, they should make you write about yourself or topics that AIs can't write about. They shouldn't need to place any restrictions on how a student writes an essay, except for plagiarism (obviously).

